---
id: cloud.callnextinstancemethod
title: callNextInstanceMethod() function
hide_title: true
---
<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[API Reference](../index.md) &gt; [Adapt Cloud](./index.md) &gt; [@adpt/cloud](./cloud.md) &gt; [callNextInstanceMethod](./cloud.callnextinstancemethod.md)

## callNextInstanceMethod() function

> This API is provided as a preview for developers and may change based on feedback that we receive. Do not use this API in a production environment.
> 

Immediately call a method on the successor instance of the one pointed to by handle.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export declare function callNextInstanceMethod<T = any>(hand: Handle, def: T, methodName: string, ...args: any[]): T;
```

## Parameters

|  Parameter | Type | Description |
|  --- | --- | --- |
|  hand | <code>Handle</code> |  |
|  def | <code>T</code> |  |
|  methodName | <code>string</code> |  |
|  args | <code>any[]</code> |  |

<b>Returns:</b>

`T`

## Remarks

NOTE(mark): There are a couple differences between callNextInstanceMethod and callInstanceMethod, all based on which predicate they pass to getInstanceValue, either hasInstanceMethod or notReplacedByStyle. - callInstance may use the instance from hand.mountedOrig where callNextInstance specifically skips it. - callInstance may choose an instance that does not have the requested method, even though there may be an instance that has it in the chain. - callInstance looks at buildData.successor to determine which elem to choose, but callNextInstance just relies on hand.nextMounted. I think ultimately buildData.successor can be replaced by just using hand.nextMounted everywhere. - callInstance looks at whether a successor is an ApplyStyle, callNextInstance does not. I think that we can probably move everything to use the hasInstanceMethod predicate, with the only option being whether to skip hand.mountedOrig.
