---
id: core.adapt.usemethod
title: Adapt.useMethod() function
hide_title: true
---
<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[API Reference](../index.md) &gt; [Adapt Core](./index.md) &gt; [@adpt/core](./core.md) &gt; [Adapt](./core.adapt.md) &gt; [useMethod](./core.adapt.usemethod.md)

## Adapt.useMethod() function

Call an instance method on the Element that `hand` refers to.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export declare function useMethod<T>(hand: Handle | null, initial: T, method: string, ...args: any[]): T;
```

## Parameters

|  Parameter | Type | Description |
|  --- | --- | --- |
|  hand | <code>Handle &#124; null</code> | The handle for the element upon which to call the method <code>method</code>. <code>hand</code> may also be <code>null</code>, in which case, <code>initial</code> is always the return value and the other arguments are ignored. |
|  initial | <code>T</code> | The initial value that <code>useMethod</code> will return before execution of the method has occurred. This value will \*\*always\*\* be returned on the first build of the component, when no component state is present. |
|  method | <code>string</code> | Name of the instance method to call. |
|  args | <code>any[]</code> | Variable arguments to be passed to the method call. |

<b>Returns:</b>

`T`

## Remarks

This hook is the primary way for a function component to call an instance method on another component element. A hook is used in order to delay execution of the method until the DOM is completely built. The reason this delayed execution is needed is because during the DOM build process, the element that `hand` refers to may not have been built yet, or `hand` may change to point to a different element later in the build process. By waiting until this avoids element build order issues and ensures that handle references are no longer changing.

Because execution of the methods is delayed, `useMethod` will always return the `initial` value on the initial build of a component. After every DOM build is complete, the method will be invoked during the state update phase and the return value stored in the component's state. This state update (or any state update) will cause the DOM to build again. Upon rebuild, the value stored from the last method invocation in the component's state will be returned and a new invocation will be queued.

If the value returned by the called method continues to change, this will cause the DOM to continue to be rebuilt again.

As this is a hook, it \*\*must not\*\* be called conditionally by a component. In cases where a handle is not always present or the method should not be called, call `useMethod` with `null` for `hand`<!-- -->.
